# Unhaunter

A paranormal investigation game in isometric perspective.

## How to play

Your task is to expel the ghosts from a location (currently 1 ghost only).

To be able to do this, first you need to identify the ghost among 44 different
possible ghost types. Each ghost type interacts with your equipment in a
different way. Each equipment is responsible for a type of evidence.

There are 8 types of evidence. A ghost has 5 evidences of those 8.

Locate the ghost, test the different equipment, note down in the van which
evidences you found, create the "Unhaunter Ghost Repellent" and use it to expel
the ghost.

Once you're done, you can click "End Mission" on the van and you'll get the
mission score.

Press [E] on the van to access the van UI for journal and other useful stuff.
The same key is used to open doors or actuate switches and lamps.

Press [R] to activate the gear on your right hand, [T] for the gear in the left
hand.

Press [Q] to cycle the inventory on your right hand. [TAB] to swap your left
and right hand.

## Evidences

* Freezing temps: Thermometer. The room that the ghost frequents can go below
  zero. Be warned that lights heat up the room and open doors will leak air
  outside. These factors limit your ability to read freezing temps.

* Floating Orbs: Night Vision IR Camera. The ghost breach (grey translucid dust)
  can illuminate under Night Vision (IR). The room has to be dark for this
  effect to be perceptible.

* UV Ectoplasm: UV Torch. The ghost might glow green under UV light. Other light
  sources might make this very hard to see.

* EMF Level 5: EMF Meter. The EMF Meter might read EMF5 for some ghosts.

* EVP Recording: Recorder. The recorder might show up a "EVP Recorded" message.

* Spirit Box: Spirit Box. Screams and other paranormal sounds might be herard
  through the static.

* RL Presence: Red Light Torch. The ghost might glow orange under this light.
  Other light sources might need to be off for the effect to be evident.

* 500+ cpm: Geiger Counter. The device might read above 500cpm for some ghosts.

## Basic strategy

First, locate where the ghost is, what is the room that it tends to roam. For
this it is best to turn on all the lights of the house and open all doors.

Press [T] to enable the torch; it has several power settings but be warned that
it might turn itself off by overheating.

The ghost has a spawn point which also sets what is its favorite room. This
spawn point is known as the ghost breach, which can be seen as a form of white
semi-transparent dust. This is better seen using the lights of the location, a
regular torch will not show it.

The ghost always roams around the breach. So most of the analysis and tests
should be done in this room.

Once this is located, turn off the lights of that room, and as well of the rooms
that are contiguous to it.

Also, close the doors of the room.

Try the different equipment and note which ones gave positive results.

Go to the van to note these down in the journal. It is not possible to note
these down outside of the van, so if you cannot memorize them you'll need to do
more trips to the van to write them down.

As you set these on the van, the list of possible ghosts will narrow. Once
you're sure which one it is, select it and you'll be able to click "Craft
Unhaunter Ghost Repellent".

This will fill a vial in your inventory with the repellent for that particular
ghost type. Go to the ghost room (breach) and wait for the ghost to be there,
then activate the vial which will spread the substance.

If successful, the ghost should disappear. Be warned, there's no cue indicating
if it worked. You need to double check that the ghost is gone. If needed you can
refill the vial in the van.

Once you're sure there are no more ghosts, proceed to the van and click 
"End Mission".


